---
layout: post
title: UoSAT-Oscar-11
date: 2004-03-03 01:48:58
comments: 
lightbox: true
tags:
  - amateurradio
summary: My first QSL card! OSCAR-11. This bird has been in space for 20 years. 
redirect_from:
  - /article/uosat-oscar-11/
category:
  - Amateur Radio
assets: resources/2004-03-03-uosat-oscar-11
---

{% include lightbox.html image="040301_uo-11.jpg" thumb="120-040301_uo-11.jpg" caption="OSCAR-11 QSL Card"  float="right" %}

My first QSL card! OSCAR-11. This bird has been in space for 20 years. The offical birthday [announcement](http://www.uk.amsat.org/uo-11/) states:

> ** AMSAT OSCAR-11 Celebrates 20 years in Space on 1 March 2004**
> 
> To mark the occasion, AMSAT-UK will be issuing special commemorative QSL cards to those lodging a reception report of the satellite during the month of March 2004.
> 
> UoSAT-Oscar-11, (also known as UOSAT-2 and UO-11) was launched on 1 Mar 1984, and has been performing well in orbit for 20 years!

So I fired up an orbital prediction program to determine when OSCAR-11 would be overhead. No special equipment needed, just my regular mobile radio in my van. My [official report](http://www.uk.amsat.org/uo-11/reports/report2.htm) filed March 1, 2004 explains:

> First aquired the signal at about 20:52 UTC. It peaked for a very short time at S2 then faded away. It came back at 20:54 UTC and stayed at S2 for a few seconds. The signal closely resembled a steady 1200bd packet stream.
> 
> I listened to the signal from my van parked in my driveway at 50.11N / 91.9314W in Sioux Lookout, Ontario, Canada.

The best is that I now have a QSL card to show off.

*[OSCAR]: Orbital Satellite Carrying Amateur Radio
*[QSL]: QSL, or QSL card, is the confirmation of a QSO (a radio contact) between two radio amateurs. QSL is a Q code, which means I confirm contact with you.
