---
layout: post
title: The *uino-1284p Has Arrived
date: 2012-01-17 19:15:10
comments: Yes
lightbox: true
tags:
  - arduino
  - avr
  - electronics
  - hardware
  - opensource
summary: Here it is! The *uino-1284p has arrived. It is an Arduino compatible platform based on the ATmega1284P-AU. The *uino-1284p board utilizes the ATmega1284P microcontroller. The primary goal of this project is to be able to access more memory, FLASH and RAM, while keeping the Arduino UNO compatible board size and I/O assignments.
redirect_from:
  - /article/uino-1284p-arrived/
category:
  - Electronics
assets: resources/2012-01-18-uino-1284p-arrived
---

{% include lightbox.html image="uino-1284p-v0.3-top.jpg" thumb="uino-1284p-v0.3-top-150x150.jpg" caption="The *uino-1284p v0.3 PCB Top"  float="left" %}

Here it is! The *uino-1284p has arrived. It is an Arduino compatible platform based on the ATmega1284P-AU. The *uino-1284p board utilizes the ATmega1284P microcontroller. The primary goal of this project is to be able to access more memory, FLASH and RAM, while keeping the Arduino UNO compatible board size and I/O assignments.

The ATmega1284P provides 128k of FLASH and 16k of RAM. It has 10 more I/O pins then the ATmega328P. The additional I/O pins are brought out to a 5x2 header in a non-standard Arduino position. All other I/O headers are in the locations one would expect from an Arduino compatible form factor. The design features a dedicated ATmega8U2 for USB connectivity. The circuit has been taken from the Arduino UNO but the TQFP-32 package was chosen for easy solderability. Power supply input for the board is selected via a jumper. Power supply options are USB bus powered or unregulated DC input. An onboard LDO regulator will accept an unregulated input voltage between 6.4V and 15V.

The source files for this project are on [Github](https://github.com/adilinden/uino-1284p).

A note on the licensing of the hardware design, this work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License, CC BY-SA. You are free to copy, distribute and transmit the work. You must attribute the work in the manner specified by the author or licensor (but not in any way that suggests that they endorse you or your use of the work). you alter, transform, or build upon this work, you may distribute the resulting work only under the same or similar license to this one.

Please refer to [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/) for the license.

{% include lightbox.html image="uino-1284p-v0.3-bottom.jpg" thumb="uino-1284p-v0.3-bottom-150x150.jpg" caption="The *uino-1284p v0.3 PCB Bottom"  float="left" %}
{% include lightbox.html image="uino-1284p-v0.3-brd.png" thumb="uino-1284p-v0.3-brd-150x150.png" caption="The *uino-1284p v0.3 PCB Top"  float="left" %}
