---
layout: post
title: Yet Another *uino-1284p
date: 2012-01-19 23:42:16
comments: 
lightbox: true
tags:
  - arduino
  - avr
  - electronics
  - hardware
  - opensource
summary: Assembled another version of the *uino-1284p.
redirect_from:
  - /article/another-uio-1284p/
category:
  - Electronics
assets: resources/2012-01-20-another-uio-1284p
---

{% include lightbox.html image="uino-1284p-v0.2-top.jpg" thumb="uino-1284p-v0.2-top-150x150.jpg" caption="The *uino-1284p v0.2 PCB Top"  float="left" %}

Today I received more *uino-1284p boards. The other day I already received [*uino-1284p](uino-1284p-arrived) boards. Those boards were version 0.3 boards. The boards received today are the predecessor, version 0.2. I have been discussing my ATmega1284p ideas on the [Arduino Forum](http://arduino.cc/forum/index.php/topic,61126.msg638416.html#msg638416). I had thought that what I accomplished with this board would be sufficient. But then a forum member pointed out that it would be really nice if the additional ATmega1284p I/O pins not mapped to Arduino compatible headers would also be available. While I had this version already committed to being made, I decided to revise the board. The revision went rather easy and I took that chance to order it as well. So now I have two different sets of these boards on hand.

Today I also received a small box of parts from [DigiKey](http://digikey.com). The arrival of some ATmega1284p, ATmega8U2 and also ATmega32U4. Next step is to get some boards assembled. At least one of each to make sure things actually work. And if I am sufficiently satisfied that there are no gross errors I will pass some on to adventurous souls willing to sacrifice their parts on these creations...

{% include lightbox.html image="uino-1284p-v0.2-bottom.jpg" thumb="uino-1284p-v0.2-bottom-150x150.jpg" caption="The *uino-1284p v0.2 PCB Bottom"  float="left" %}
{% include lightbox.html image="uino-1284p-v0.2-brd.gif" thumb="uino-1284p-v0.2-brd-150x150.gif" caption="The *uino-1284p v0.2 Board Bottom"  float="left" %}
